<!-- this module is not started yet but  now i m uploading theory bcoz of due date is 26-aug-2025 ,i will update this after module complete -->
## What do you mean by RESTful web services? 

- REST stands for  **Representational State Transfer**

- its an architectural style that can be applied to web services to create and enhance properties like performance, scalability, and modifiability.

- RESTful web services are generally highly scalable, light, and maintainable.

- they are used to **create API** for web-based applications. It exposes API from an application in a secure and stateless manner to the client.

### RESTful Architecture:

1. **Division of State and Functionality:**

    - State and functionality are divided into distributed resources. This is because every resource has to be accessible via normal HTTP commands. That means a user should be able to issue the GET request to get a file, issue the POST or PUT request to put a file on the server, or issue the DELETE request to delete a file from the server.
    <br>

2. **Stateless, Layered, Caching-Support, Client/Server Architecture:**

    - A type of architecture where the web browser acts as the client, and the web server acts as the server hosting the application, is called a client/server architecture. The state of the application should not be maintained by REST. The architecture should also be layered, meaning that there can be intermediate servers between the client and the end server. It should also be able to implement a well-managed caching mechanism.


### Protocols of RESTful applications:  

1. URI Resource Identification:
2. Uniform Interface:
3. Self-Descriptive Messages:
4. Use of Hyperlinks for State Interactions:

### Advantages of RESTful web services: 

- ***Speed:*** 
    - As there is no strict specification, RESTful web services are faster as compared to SOAP. It also consumes fewer resources and bandwidth.

- ***Compatible with SOAP:*** 
    - RESTful web services are compatible with SOAP, which can be used as the implementation.

- ***Language and Platform Independency:***
    - RESTful web services can be written in any programming language and can be used on any platform.

- ***Supports Various Data Formats:*** 
    - It permits the use of several data formats like HTML, XML, Plain Text, JSON, etc.

    
    ---